15 Things People Didn't Tell You About Your First Year of College
Source: mindfullivingcompany.com

1. It's actually really hard to get into the "swing" of things
For me, and I know for most, it was hard to just simply get a routine in motion. Back when you were in high school, you normally had a good flow to your day and weekends. Going to class, running to practice or your after school job, then coming home to a meal, some homework and bed. But then you get thrown into college and that routine is completely tossed aside; you have to start all over again. Everyone told us that the transition from leaving home to college would be hard. Ready for not just living somewhere else, but the basic adjustment to new eating schedules, sleep schedules, fitness schedules, studying schedules, and an overall different social life.

2. Everyone talked about how cheap you would end up being in college, but it doesn't always hit everyone that way.
Some people are really humble about the fact that their parents were able to pay for their college. You're around a huge new group of people with a lot of different personalities that you may not always have gotten the chance to see before.

3. The paper you whipped out the night before it was due is actually better than any of the papers you started a week or two ahead with.
Stress gets the mind running.

4. The staying up late and studying till 4 AM really doesn't happen all the time, like it's shown in movies.
College sounded like all people did was study and stay up till the AM cramming for tests. I actually found myself going to bed earlier than I did in high school most of the time. Your freshman year is mostly GEN EDs and enjoy the little free time GEN ED classes give you until it's soon gone.

5. The times you will honestly only dress up for class is if you're trying to impress someone or you just bought a new outfit.
You're going to see it all around campus: robes and slippers in the cafeteria, the usual undone ratty hair. And the best thing? No one cares. Seriously no one cares at all how you look.

6. Coming back to your living room couch at home would make you instantly water eyed.
I was seriously not at all prepared for basically wanting to cry the first time I flopped down on the family room couch. It felt like I was still in high school and just coming back home from school. It was just so sad because as comfortable as that moment felt you knew it wasn't going to last.

7. You seriously won't remember a single thing that was said at freshman orientation.
Other than the really awkward ice breaker moments you had. Props to the people who happened to find some of their best friends at orientation — you're the lucky ones.

8. You'll miss your dog a whole lot more than you were expecting.
No one informed me on how much I would miss my dog's annoying bark, or the dread of always having to take her out. The main priority that needed to be done the first day I visited home was to lay on the floor with my dog for a good 30 minutes minimum.

9. You basically will set records on how far out you push your load of laundry.
Before you need to pay to have it washed or finally drag it to your parents house if they're close by.

10. No one cares whether you are considered "popular" or "cool" because those words do not exist in college.
It's college — no one cares about every single person's life. Everyone in general becomes a lot more themselves in college because of the fact that they feel they don't need to force relationships or be fake.

11. Personal space or "alone time" is completely thrown out the window.
Unless you have a single dorm room, it's just not gonna happen. There's no privacy. You sleep in a room where you can see your roommate at all times, and you share a bathroom with an entire floor. You just have to deal with it.

12. The first person you meet in your class will not always be your best, lifelong friend.
Don't force friendships. There's hundreds and thousands of other students on campus. You have a lot of people to meet, so just ease into it.

13. You won't always meet "a ton of people and friends" right away as we have often been told.
Don't be in a rush. Join clubs and engage with people in class to meet others. Don't waste your time with "fake" friends — people you only hang out with on Friday nights and barely talk to the rest of the week. College is about finding people who have the same interests as you, who understand you, who have your back. Strive for REAL friends.

14. You will have random, mental breakdowns at any given moment of the day.
It just happens. The stress is almost too much at times, from school, work, friends, everything in a busy college student's life. But then, after a little breakdown, you're suddenly right back up and going strong a few minutes later. You will get through it.

15. You sure as hell won't be "finding" yourself anytime soon.
I think I "lost" myself more than I came anywhere near finding myself in college. Don't rush. These are seriously precious years in your life. Let yourself go out and experience the world and gain opportunities that can help bring you towards a better understanding of yourself.
