15 College Freshman Survival Tips
Source: theodysseyonline.com

1. Pack early.
Don't wait until the night before to start packing. Set aside at least a week of buying and organizing what you're taking with you. It can be as easy as designating a corner in your house of all the things you plan on bringing come move-in day.

2. Get to know your roommate.
Not everyone gets lucky and rooms with their BFF so take the time to get to know your roommate before the semester starts. It can be as easy as texting back and forth asking questions about each other or actually meeting up in person and having lunch. Either way, it will prevent any awkwardness on move-in day.

3. Get a planner.
A planner will literally save your life in college. It doesn't have to be a super fancy and expensive planner. Get one that works for you and will keep you organized.

4. Go to class.
You're paying thousands of dollars to go to college so don't skip classes. No matter how cool your friends may make it sound or how tempted you are, don't do it.

5. Don't be afraid to ask questions or for help.
Asking questions in class or asking for help is never frowned upon. Professors are more than willing to answer any questions that will better help you understand what's going on in class.

6. Read the syllabus.
There is a reason professors hand them out on the first day, so read it. It will keep you alert and organized for upcoming deadlines and exams, and you can avoid being that student who asks the professor multiple questions a day and getting the same answer every single time: "It's on the syllabus."

7. Check your email.
Get in the habit of checking your email regularly. Don't wait until one morning when you wake up late for class and sprint across campus only to find a note saying class is cancelled, or cram all night before a big exam only to find out it has been rescheduled — all because you missed the email.

8. Don't buy textbooks from the campus bookstore.
Just don't do it unless it's the last resort. Be smart and look online first to compare prices. Also, don't buy textbooks until after the first day of classes to make sure you actually need the book. Some professors don't mind if you buy one or two editions back. Some know the struggle of overpriced textbooks and give online copies.

9. Make at least one friend in every class.
Making at least one friend in every class will ensure that you have someone who is willing to share what notes you missed if you are ever unable to go to class.

10. Get involved.
Find an organization that really speaks to you and join it. Or start your own organization if none of them are what you're looking for. As long as you're an active member, don't forget to include it in your resume.

11. Know your limit.
College is a time that people like to experiment with alcohol. Be smart whenever you're drinking and know you're not invincible. Know your limit early on and make sure you go out with friends that you trust and aren't afraid to cut you off.

12. Take advantage of the campus gym.
The "Freshman 15" is real and it doesn't discriminate. Your tuition includes having access to the campus gym so you may as well take advantage of it. Find a gym buddy that will help keep you motivated, or create a fitness plan that's realistic and achievable.

13. Visit classrooms before the first day of classes.
This will help you not look like a total freshman on the first day. Map out a route in your head that will help you get to every class on time. Also, knowing the room number is very important to prevent that awkward first day exit 10 minutes into the wrong class.

14. Call home.
Don't forget to call home as often as you can. Check in with your parents and let them know how you're doing. It will ease their worries and will make them feel special that you took time out of your day to make the phone call.

15. Enjoy the journey!
College is an exciting time in everyone's lives. Make sure to enjoy yourself and really cherish all the people you meet and memories you create because before you know it, your first year will be over.
