Quora College Freshman Topic - Mixed Tips
Source: quora.com/topic/College-Freshman

Self-discipline is the most important thing you need. Nobody will baby you like they did in high school. Professors will give you a syllabus on the very first day of class and it is your job to keep track of what is on it. Be prepared to know your grade in the class at the end of the course.

Don't think college is like high school. The first few classes may be easy because of your honor or AP classes. Use that time to optimize your study habits. Find the balance of getting an A without spending more time than you have to.

Everyone is just as eager to make friends as you are. Leave your dorm door open for people to look in and invite them in.

Visit your college's career center. Get acquainted with its resources. Look for summer internships.

Make the effort to go to each of your professors' office hours at least once. Have a chat even if you don't have academic questions. Keep an eye out for undergraduate research opportunities.

Make an effort to take classes outside of your major. Take something in a discipline you never experienced before.

Make friends — strike up conversations with anyone. Join a club or three.

Stay on top of your coursework. Make a calendar with all your due dates. There is less hand-holding and a much faster pace than in high school.

Get to know some of your instructors. Just for basic questions, during office hours. Sometimes you learn more this way. Grades count — study comes first, fun after.

Have a set daily schedule every day, even on weekends. It is OK to deviate if you have a good reason, but it's better to have a plan than to waste the day.

Associate with people at a higher level than you more often than people lower — professors, senior students, grad students.

Spend at least 1-2 hours a day reading textbooks or non-fiction, preferably in the library so you may meet people.

Learning is your number one priority.

Get help with subjects you are struggling with. Almost every campus has a tutoring center.

Have a note-taking strategy. Prioritize your homework and deadlines.

No amount of involvement in clubs, sports, or activities can justify poor grades. All these are like zeros — they have no value without the "1" of academics. Keep adding activities but get your academics in first position.

Grades don't define you, but don't have an unhealthy relationship with them either. Set normal expectations — what is a feasible goal you can achieve for a given class? Balance your academic goals with your life outside of school.

Don't be afraid to transfer if you don't like the college. You may be happier somewhere else.

Call your parents. Don't forget about them in the excitement of college. It eases their worries and makes them feel valued.

Try to eat off campus at least once a week. Reward yourself with a non-campus meal for your work on essays and projects.

If your town has mass transit and you don't have a car, use it. Your experience of college will suffer if you are stuck on campus.

Make memories. Live great stories. Stay committed to learning and challenging yourself.

Stay in touch with your friends — those from your hometown, high school, and college. Losing touch with true friends is a tragedy.

See live music. Go to festivals. Your time in college is precious.
