Quora - What Freshmen Need to Know About Yale (and College Generally)
Source: quora.com

There is nothing uniquely special about Yale for a freshman compared to attending any college. What you need to know is that there is help and coaching out there for when you struggle — and you will struggle. You should grow and change a LOT during your freshman year and many of the friends you make that year will stick for life.

You are setting your own schedule and choosing your own food. Be wise most days and indulge periodically.

Do not cheat. Struggling is expected.

College should not be defined by your grades so don't obsess over them. Make an effort to get to know everyone in your residential college — many people will go on to do great things and can help you later in life.

Take a freshman seminar if your school offers them. These are small 10-20 person classes on a variety of topics that are only available to freshmen. The small class size and direct access to professors is a rare opportunity — don't skip it because it conflicts with a class you can take any other semester.

Don't give into the ego around you. Everyone is just as nervous and uncertain as you are, even if they don't show it.

The four years will fly by in an instant so take it all in and study some while you're at it. Enjoy the experience.

Tips for succeeding academically as a freshman: Barring illness, don't miss any classes. Research shows regular class attendance leads to higher grades. Sit where you can clearly hear the instructor and see visual aids. Take notes every day in every class — even if the material seems familiar. Taking notes requires mental engagement and keeps your attention from wandering.

Carefully read the assigned textbook material in preparation for each class. Re-read difficult passages until they make sense. Do NOT fall behind in the assigned reading.

List all assignment due dates for every course on a single master calendar so the total workload for the semester can be seen at a glance. Get an early enough start on each assignment so due dates are never missed.

Study sufficiently before each exam but review material regularly rather than cramming last minute. Get enough sleep the night before exams.

Regularly participate in class discussions and ask the instructor to explain concepts that are difficult to understand. Other students likely have similar questions even if they're too shy to ask.

When taking especially difficult courses, consider joining or starting a small study group of like-minded, serious students.

Be a proactive learner: ask questions, make up or find extra problems to solve. The professor and TAs are resources but ultimately your learning is your responsibility.

Learn as much as you can as broadly as you can. Take that class in poetry or in a foreign language or in programming. You will likely never again have an opportunity like college with so many people so available and eager to help you learn.

Don't let classes get in the way of your education. Join a subject-area club. Do research or internships. Real portfolios and projects are how recruiters make decisions about resumes.
