Reddit r/college - Underrated Tips for Incoming Freshmen
Source: reddit.com/r/college

SLEEP. DO NOT UNDERESTIMATE HOW MUCH YOUR BODY NEEDS SLEEP. As long as you have a consistent sleep schedule and sleep for 8-10 hours a day you will be ok. Nothing should come before sleep.

Time management: do not put off work until the day before or day of. It will work for the first few months, but then it will pile up and you will become overwhelmed. Aim to have an assignment done 1-2 weeks before the due date.

You are in college — not your professor, not your high school teachers, and not your parents. This is about your future.

Your childhood dreams aren't actually to be a doctor or lawyer — they're about aspects of those jobs you like. Latch on to those aspects and ditch the specific career path and you'll see more awesome paths open up.

Your highest priority is your health. Your second highest priority is your coursework. Don't take up hobbies or clubs you aren't willing to quit at any time in pursuit of your top two priorities.

Academic expectations are way different in college than high school. Expect to spend 2x time on your own on coursework compared to class time. In college you'll spend about 3 hours a week in class, so to learn the same amount you've got to spend about 5-6 hours out of class. There are no re-takes on tests for most classes.

In many professions, letters of recommendation count for more than your GPA. If you honestly connect with a professor, keep that contact — they're a professional contact you might keep for the rest of your life.

Go to office hours to build relationships with professors. Just ask when you need recommendations — it's part of their job and totally normal. Give professors a few weeks advance notice, preferably a month.

Avoid toxic people — the complainers, the gossips, the negative people who always commiserate. Find positive, hardworking, honest, kind people instead.

The gym will be your best friend. Incorporate it into your day and make an effort to at least get there and do 1 exercise.

Going to the library instead of studying at home can transform your grades. One student went from a C student to the top of their class.

Pick 1 day for partying, 1 day for lowkey socializing, and 1 day to be alone and rest. Ideally: party on Friday, hang out Saturday, rest and prepare Sunday. This combination gives you the best experience — good social life AND good grades.

Don't trade sleeping, eating, or showering for studying or socializing. You will feel crappy, see a decline in grades, and become more irritable.

Be consistent in your studies. Social media romanticizes all-nighters and cramming. It might work for a few assignments but in the long run it's detrimental to your grade, physical and mental well being.

Join clubs from first year — great way to meet like-minded people outside the classroom.

Use RateMyProfessor.com before signing up for a class. Knowing what type of professor to expect is key. Often there will be 2-3 professors for a class and one is going to be terrible. Really read the reviews to pick out who is salty vs. who is giving a genuine warning.

Don't do 8am classes. High school 8am is different from college 8am. Only take them if it's the only option and it's required.

Use Notion or Google Calendar to organize your class work. Work ahead whenever you have the chance. Try your best to not get behind — that's when things become overwhelming.

If you have an exam the next day and you're cramming, cut yourself off at 2-3am because past that you'll be too tired to learn anything anyway.

It's totally normal if college isn't "the best years of your life." You're there to get an education. Classes are difficult and stressful. Moving away from parents for the first time is hard. Making friends all over again is hard. Don't feel like you're doing something wrong if it isn't fun 24/7.
