Reddit r/NCSU - Freshmen Survival Guide
Source: reddit.com/r/NCSU

ACADEMICS:
Don't go overboard with partying. Take advantage of tutoring in the ASC (Academic Success Center) located on the second floor of D.H. Hill Library. Go there to do your assignments even if you don't have a question — chances are you'll have one while doing homework.

Go to office hours with a list of questions so you make better use of your time. Reread your questions and UNDERSTAND what you were asking before speaking with your professor.

Creating a study schedule is entirely dependent on you. Some people do better with one and some don't. Try it for three weeks or until your first exam. If your grade is good, stick with it. If not, try studying without the schedule.

Look back on your tests after getting them back. Find out what you missed, write down which parts you missed most, and ask your professor to go over it during office hours. You'll thank yourself when finals come.

Get a study group — they do help. But make sure to actually study. Studying with close friends is usually not the best idea since you'll goof off. Set breaks after completing objectives, not after a set time.

Study a week or two ahead so when you're in class, it's a review and information gets reinforced.

Save some non-major electives for your senior year so you can relax. Getting all electives done early is not a good idea.

Believe in objective-based studying, not time-based studying. If you study all day and understand nothing, there was no point.

SOCIALS/CLUBS:
Visit getinvolved.ncsu.edu to find clubs. However, clubs related to your major are often found on your major's department website, not the main club website.

Join at least one major-related club — many host job fairs, which are great opportunities to get internships.

Get some sort of physical activity. The gym is free for all students during the semester — might as well use it.

FINANCES:
Don't worry about saving dining dollars until the last minute, but don't spend everything in a week either. Spend dining dollars moderately.

If you can live at home, do it — it is so much cheaper. If you are close enough to the university, you can opt out of living in a dorm.

GENERAL WELL-BEING (from professor):
Care for yourself and others. If you start feeling like you're struggling, ask for help then — don't wait until it's overwhelmed you. Talk to your professors and the counseling center.

Go to the gym. Exercise has documented effects on mental health in addition to physical health.

If you or others are experiencing food insecurity, NCSU has a food pantry. Do not be afraid or embarrassed to use it.

If in doubt, call your professor "Professor [lastname]." They will tell you if they prefer something else. Read the syllabus and ask questions.

Go to class. The second you start skipping you fall into a cycle of not attending. Even if you aren't paying much attention, just being there could be the difference between a B and your professor bumping up your grade. Professors notice attendance. It also makes studying much easier because you've been taking in information at some level.

Always keep your keys on a lanyard so you don't lose them. Lockout fees and key replacements are $200+.

Find time to relax and do things you enjoy — work out, game, paint, etc. Do all this within reason to balance out your week.
