Reddit r/college - Biggest Advice for a Freshman
Source: reddit.com/r/college

Study hard for the first exam, then depending on your grades, you can adjust how much you study for the next ones.

Get a consistent schedule of waking up at the same time, studying, exercising, and sleeping. A consistent routine is critical your first semester.

Join something. Whether it's a fraternity/sorority, a club, or something within your major, just join something. It creates a large web of friends and contacts. Do this sooner rather than later.

Talk to your professors. When the lines of communication are open there is so much more they can do to support you, especially during your first year.

Go to class! Go to class! Go to class! Seriously — go to class.

Focus on getting a high GPA freshman year to set yourself up for a good internship the summer between freshman and sophomore year. There is a snowball effect: a good internship early leads to better internships later.

Try to make friends your first week. Most friend groups are formed in the first 48 hours. Don't wait — you may find yourself without friends if you delay.

Learn how to study! Practice different study techniques before you're deep into your degree. Watch tips on YouTube to learn about smart study habits.

Be involved in social clubs early.

Regularly check your university email, at least once in the morning and once in the evening. So much info is passed through the system.

Don't buy textbooks until you are absolutely certain you need them, or if the professor emails to have the book on the first day. Always show up to class — missing days gets you very far behind.

Don't let imposter syndrome get to you. Everyone else is feeling the exact same way. Don't be afraid to talk to people, ask for help, form bonds.

Take random classes not associated with your major and see what you like. You'd be surprised at some classes offered and maybe it will change your course in college.

Know that depression isn't just "laying in bed all day." Know the signs of mental health problems and seek help early. Sometimes there are bigger things in life than school and you can always take time off and go back later.

Don't find one group of friends and solely rely on them. Join multiple organizations or attend campus events to meet new people.

Don't be afraid to ask questions, even in a large lecture. Professors are more than happy to help if you are stuck. Attend office hours as needed.

Start thinking about your career early. Look for internships as early as you can. When you graduate, all this hard work put in early will pay off.

Pick the right major. Make sure it's something you want to do and not what your parents or friends want. For textbooks — the textbook is useless if your professor teaches from PowerPoints. Ask students who've had your professor whether textbooks are necessary.

Don't take 8am classes if you are not a morning person. College 8am is brutal. Download textbooks in PDF form if possible to avoid paying full price.

Keep your dorm room door open if you are comfortable — it invites people to meet you and helps you make friends.
